Rebecca, The Maasai Changemaker is inspired by the true story of a young girl in Kenya who was alarmed by the signs of climate change in her community. She educated herself about the problem, then galvanized her community and the government to take action. This children’s picture book is the result of a collaboration between Ashoka and World reader. It is intended to inspire children everywhere to become Changemakers and encourage adults everywhere to support them in their journey.

In the land of the Maasai, in Southwest Kenya, there is a girl named Rebecca. Rebecca lives near a large national park, where there are golden lions, and big grey elephants. Rebecca's family keep cattle, sheep and goats and depend on farming the land for food for their animals. Rebecca goes to school and helps her family care for the animals when she is home.

One very hot day, Rebecca finds her mama1 crying. “Our crops have been bad this year,” she says. “Now our goats and sheep might die.”

'mama' is Kiswahili for mother At school, Rebecca asks her teacher why there has
been so little rain this year. “We have had many days without rain,” says her teacher. “When we have no rain, plants cannot grow. Without plants to eat and water to drink, our animals die.” Everyone in the class is quiet. They are worried for their families, their animals, and their community.


At the school library, Rebecca searches for information about rain. What she learns is difficult. The whole world is getting hotter, and there is less rain. She learns a new term: “Climate Change.” Cars, buses and airplanes are making the air dirty.
Trees are being cut down, and used to make buildings. And trash is buried in the ground. All these things are harming nature.


For the whole day Rebecca feels sad. What can just one girl do to help the whole world? Rebecca decides to talk to her teacher about what she has learned. “It is a big problem for the earth,” her teacher explains. “But there are some things
we can do to help, like planting trees to make nature stronger.”

As Rebecca walks home, it is hot and she stops to drink from her water bottle. She can’t stop thinking about the lack of rain, and how she can help her community. Then she has an idea. “I’ve learned so much about climate change,” she thinks. “It would help if everyone knew about this problem!”
8
The next day Rebecca asks her teacher to give a
lesson about the world’s changing weather, and
the damage humans are doing to nature.
At the end of the class, Rebecca stands up. She
asks everyone in her class to go home, and teach
their parents about what they have learned.
In just a few days, everyone is talking about how
humans are harming nature.
9
One day, the Elders hold a meeting to talk with
Rebecca about what can be done to help nature.
The Elders' Shukas2 are bright red, and they have
many bracelets on their heads and wrists.
The problem they face is so big. And most of the
harm to nature is happening in big cities, far away
from their community.
“Let’s write a letter to the President of Kenya,” one
Elder says. “He needs to know that we cannot live
with no rain. Then maybe he will make changes to
our laws to stop harming nature.”
10
2 Shuka is the traditional bright coloured fabric worn by the Maasai
Rebecca takes the letter and shares it with her
classmates. They each ask their families to sign
their name at the bottom to show their support.
11
In Nairobi, the President reads the letter from the
Maasai community. He has had many other letters,
from other parts of the country. “I need to help
Kenya protect nature,” he thinks.
In the Maasai community, everyone agrees to plant
a tree outside their home. Rebecca and her Mother
dig the hole together, and put the seedlings in the
soil.
12
At Rebecca’s school, the head teacher talks to all
the students. They ask Rebecca to stand at the
front.
“Protecting the environment is a big job - and
everyone in the world has to help.” The Principal
says, “But we would like to thank Rebecca
especially, for helping us learn and make a change.
Imagine if we all helped our community!”
Rebecca is so happy. She already is thinking about
what she and her friends can do next to help
nature and her community.
13
Activity 1: Love My Neighbor
Age Group: 3-8
Skill: Empathy, Communication
Materials: Chairs
Why? In order to solve problems, we need to
understand the experiences of others with empathy.
We must look beyond first impressions and superficial
labels, and replace our projects and expectations with
real understanding. It is important for us to feel
connected to one another and feel valued.
How?
The following game is a great way to uncover shared
experiences among students, to deepen understanding
of one another’s background and interests, and to
reinforce a sense of community. This game can be
played in a classroom or at home.
1. Setup: Before starting the game, set up chairs in a
circle facing each other. Make sure everyone
understands that everyone will get a turn and that they
need to be careful in racing for the seats. Invite
everyone to sit in the chairs around the circle.
14
2. Play game: Play begins when the designated player,
standing in the middle of the circle, makes a statement
that is true about him or herself. For example: “I love my
neighbor who has a little brother.” Everyone seated for
whom this statement is true must stand and move to a
chair not directly next to them. The person in the
middle is also looking for a chair, thus leaving one
participant without a chair.
That person moves to the middle and continues the
game by making a statement that is true about him or
herself.
For example, “I love my neighbor who speaks Spanish”
or “I love my neighbor who loves to play soccer.”
The game continues so that everyone gets at least one
turn to make a statement.
3. Reflect: Talk about your experience in the game.
? What did you learn about the other people?
? Were you surprised when people jumped up for
certain prompts?
? How did it feel to be up there alone?
? How did it feel when you discovered others
shared your experience?
15
Activity 2: Hope is All Around Me
Age Group: 5-12
Skill: Empathy, Confidence
Materials: Paper and pencil or camera
Why? Many times, we forget to appreciate the little
things that surround us and give our lives meaning.
Changemakers don’t only spot problems, but they see
opportunity. Changemakers are driven by hope, not
fear or anger.
How? This week-long challenge is to look for five things
that bring you joy each day. By doing this, you will
begin to see the immense potential that surrounds you,
as well as the immense potential within yourself.
Every day, write down, draw, or take a photo of
something that brings you joy. Think about: What
makes you smile? Does this thing make others smile?
Why do you feel joy?
For example: Every Friday, you and your friends pick up
a snack on the way home from school. It is a fun way to
see all of your friends and enjoy a delicious treat! Take a
photo of your friends with your snacks.
End of the Week Reflection
Talk with a friend or family member. Share with them
everything that brought you joy! What did you learn
about yourself and your community?
16
Activity 3: Feel, Imagine, Do, Share.
Age Group: 5-15
Skill: Critical Thinking, Problem-Solving
Materials: Piece of paper, pencil
Why? Empathy can be cultivated through observation
and reflection. For example, writing down takeaways
can help young people internalize what they have
learned. Feeling related questions can help young
people recognize and communicate their emotions
with others. Imagining a better world can help young
people think beyond themselves. This activity can be
done independently or with a group.
How? Step 1: Feel. Start by identifying a problem you
wish to address. Write down all the situations and
behaviors that bother you in your home, school, or
community.
After writing down several problems, ask the following
questions: What seems to be the problem? What
patterns do you see? How do these problems make you
feel? How does this problem make others feel?
Repeat this activity each day for a week.
Step 2: Imagine. Next comes the ideation phase.
Taking what you have observed, think about how the
problem affects others.
Discuss: Who did you see as the people involved in the
experience? What stands out to you? Why?
17
Now it’s time to brainstorm a solution. The more ideas,
the better! There is no judgement in brainstorming.
Write down ideas as they come.
Discuss: How can we fix this problem? What can we do
differently? What are different ways we can combine
certain ideas to make them even better?
Step 3: Do. Review all of your ideas. Circle or vote on
your favorite ideas. Which idea excites you the most?
Now you’re ready to take action. Here you’re aiming for
an idea that is easy to implement, not an idea that is
perfect. Try implementing your idea and focus on the
end-user rather than the product.
Think through the following:
1) What does it look like?
2) What does it feel like?
3) How does it work?
Step 4: Share. Share with others your solution. Get their
ideas on what works, what doesn’t work, and how it
could be improved. Challenge them to come up with
an idea, too!
18
19
Rebecca is a changemaker from
Kenya, activating her classmates
at Tembea Girls’ Academy and
community to be allies for the
environment through education,
advocacy and action.
Rebecca and her classmates
share the urgency of protecting
the environment and practical
steps to take action, such as
writing letters and petitions to
government officials.
Rebecca’s school was established by BEADS for
Education, a nonprofit that aspires to enable young
women like Rebecca to thrive through education and
business development.
Rebecca’s mentor or sponsor, Cynthia Moss, the founder
of Amboseli Trust for Elephants, inspires her to be
compassionate and attentive for every living thing.
Relentlessly striving for a better world, Rebecca says, “If I
do succeed in my venture, the world will be beautiful.
The cattle will be fat, the children well nourished, there
will be many more trees, the markets will be full of
farmers’ produce and the wild animals will be many.”
Meet Rebecca
20
About Ashoka
Ashoka believes the ability to adapt to and drive
change is essential for everyone to thrive in a
rapidly changing world. Ashoka is building a global
community that is laying the foundation for a world
where everyone is a changemaker. At the heart of
the Everyone a Changemaker movement is a vision
to transform the way children and young people
grow up so everyone has the power and skillset to
create change for the good of all.
www.ashoka.org
About Worldreader
Worldreader believes that readers build a better
world. We work with partners globally to support
vulnerable and underserved communities with
digital reading solutions that help improve literacy
and learning outcomes for children.
